# Clustering-guided-LightGBM
Soft ground tunnel lithology classification using clustering-guided light gradient boosting machine

Paper Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1674775523000720

During tunnel boring machine (TBM) excavation, lithology identification is essential to understand tunnelling performance and avoid time-consuming holes. However, site investigation generally needs more ground samples, and the information is subjective, heterogeneous, and imbalanced due to mixed ground conditions. In this study, an unsupervised (K-means) and synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE)-guided light-gradient boosting machine (LightGBM) classifier is proposed to identify the soft ground tunnel classification and determine the imbalanced issue of tunnelling data. An earth pressure balance (EPB) TBM recorded 18 operational parameters and the three primary tunnel lithologies during the excavation. The proposed model is applied using Python low-code PyCaret library. Next, four decision tree-based classifiers were obtained quickly with automatic hyperparameter tuning to determine the best model for clustering-guided SMOTE application. In addition, the Shapley additive explanation (SHAP) was implemented to avoid the model black box problem. The proposed model was evaluated using accuracy, F1 score, precision, recall, and receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve to obtain a reasonable outcome for the minority class. It shows that the proposed model can provide significant tunnel lithology identification based on the operational parameters of EPB-TBM. The proposed method can be applied to heterogeneous tunnel formations with several TBM operational parameters to describe the tunnel lithologies for efficient tunnelling.
